Python Variables
A variable is a named location used to store data in the memory. It is helpful to think of variables as a container that
holds data that can be changed later in the program. For example,
Here, we have created a variable named number. We have assigned the value 10 to the variable.
You can think of variables as a bag to store books in it and that book can be replaced at any time.
Initially, the value of number was 10. Later, it was changed to 1.1.
Note: In Python, we don't actually assign values to the variables. Instead, Python gives the reference of the object(value) to the variable.
Assigning values to Variables in Python
As you can see from the above example, you can use the assignment operator = to assign a value to a variable.
Example 1: Declaring and assigning value to a variable
n the above program, we assigned a value apple.com to the variable website. Then, we printed out the value assigned to website i.e. apple.com
Note: Python is a type-inferred language, so you don't have to explicitly define the variable type. It automatically knows
that apple.com is a string and declares the website variable as a string.
In the above program, we have assigned apple.com to the website variable initially. Then, the value is changed to programiz.com.
Constants
A constant is a type of variable whose value cannot be changed. It is helpful to think of constants as containers that hold
information which cannot be changed later.
You can think of constants as a bag to store some books which cannot be replaced once placed inside the bag.
Assigning value to constant in Python
In Python, constants are usually declared and assigned in a module. Here, the module is a new file containing variables,
functions, etc which is imported to the main file. Inside the module, constants are written in all capital letters and underscores
separating the words.
In the above program, we create a constant.py module file. Then, we assign the constant value to PI and GRAVITY.
After that, we create a main.py file and import the constant module. Finally, we print the constant value.
Note: In reality, we don't use constants in Python. Naming them in all capital letters is a convention to separate them
from variables, however, it does not actually prevent reassignment.
Rules and Naming Convention for Variables and constants
Constant and variable names should have a combination of letters in lowercase (a to z) or uppercase (A to Z) or digits (0 to 9)
or an underscore (_).
